# Digital Trust and Identity -Techniques –Code of Practice

## Summary

As work in the Digital Trust and Identity series continues at an accelerated pace, there has been a need identified to support the normative work with a document that can offer the user informative references and support material, best practices, and codes of practice.

## Proposed Scope

This document providesa reference set of generic digital trust, identity, credentials and wallets techniques including implementation guidance. This document is designed to be used by organizations:

* within the context of a digital trust and identity management system based on the CAN/CIOSC 103 series of standards;
* for implementing digital trust and identity programs based on internationally recognized best practices; and
* for developing organization-specific digital trust and identity guidelines.

This document applies to all organizations, including public and private companies, government entities, and not-for-profit organizations.
NOTE: This document is not intended for conformity assessment.

## Strategic Need

As the digital trust and identity ecosystem continues to evolve at a rapid pace, there is a clear need for Standards and guard rails to assist users in developing and demonstrating trust in their programs.

As these Standards continue to develop, there is a need to support this work and provide the users with assistance in developing, implementing, and deploying their digital trust and identity programs.

This techniques and code of practice document aims to offer the user industry techniques and guidance to ensure the user is implementing a program that is aligned and interoperable with international best practices.

This document not only intends to offer support for users looking to deploy the CAN/CIOSC 103 series of Standards, but any user looking to develop and deploy a digital trust and identity program at their or  ganization.

This document will:

* be maintained on a periodic basis as determined by the technical committee responsible for developing the standard; and
* use the CAN descriptor.

## Trade Considerations

Alignment and interoperability are core fundamentalsof an effective digital trust and identity program. By developing and offering a key document that incorporates industry and international best practice, Canadian organizations will ensure that their digital trust and identity programs are effective, aligned and interoperable both domestically and internationally.

## References

* CAN/CIOSC 103-1:2020: Digital trust and identity -- Part 1: Fundamentals
* CAN/CIOSC 103-2: 2021: Digital trust and identity -- Part 2: Delivery of Healthcare Services
* [Australia Trusted Digital Identity Framework](https://www.dta.gov.au/our-projects/digital-identity/join-identity-federation/accreditation-and-onboarding/trusted-digital-identity-framework)
* [ITSP.30.031 User Authentication Guidance for Information Technology Systems](https://www.cse-cst.gc.ca/en/node/2454/html/28582)
* [Public Sector Profile of the Pan-Canadian Trust Framework](https://canada-ca.github.io/PCTF-CCP/)
* Treasury Board Secretariat of Canada. Directive on Identity Management. 2019.
* Treasury Board Secretariat of Canada. Guideline on Identity Assurance. 2016.
* Treasury Board Secretariat of Canada. Guideline on Defining Authentication Requirements. 2012.
* DIACC P1000 Series, Pan-Canadian Trust Framework.
* European Union. Regulation No. 910/2014 on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market. 2014.
* ISO/IEC 24760-1:2019, IT Security and Privacy -- A framework for identity management -- Part 1: Terminology and concepts
* ISO/IEC 24760-2:2015, Information technology --    Security techniques -- A framework for identity management -- Part 2: Reference architecture and requirements
* ISO/IEC 24760-3:2016, Information technology --    Security techniques -- A framework for identity management -- Part 3: Practice
* ISO/IEC 29115:2013, Information technology -- Security techniques   --    Entity authentication assurance framework
* ISO/IEC 29100 Information Technology – Security Techniques – Privacy Framework
* ISO/IEC 27018 Information Technology – Security Techniques – Code of Practice for Protection of PII in Public Clouds Acting as PII Processors
* New Zealand Digital Identity
  * Evidence of Identity Standard
  * Authentication Standards
  * [Identification Management](https://www.digital.govt.nz/standards-and-guidance/identity/digital-identity/)
* Uk
  * [GPG 45](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/identity-proofing-and-verification-of-an-individual)
  * [GPG 44](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/authentication-credentials-for-online-government-services)



